+++
title = "CS131 - Mathematics for Computer Scientists II"
+++

If you did Further Maths at A-Level, this module should be rather straightforward. I did not, so this was an interesting experience. CS131 will add on to the work you may have done in Further Maths, and will definitely extend the concepts you've learnt in A-Level Maths.

This module provides slides and comprehensive notes, and I have generally referred to these.

## Useful Links

#### LibreTexts Mathematics [[↗](https://math.libretexts.org/)]

Despite the comprehensive notes provided, you'll probably want further explanation for a certain concept. In those cases, I have typically used LibreTexts to help me understand. They provide plenty of notes, and there's opportunities for some further reading if you're up for it!

#### Symbolab [[↗](https://www.symbolab.com/)]

Symbolab can calculate the result of various complex problems, such as diagonalising matrices, identifying convergent sequences or finding the general solution of a second order derivative. Simply enter your problem, and the calculator will show you the major steps to solving. This is **not** an alternative to figuring out a solution though! You should use it to check your working.

#### Khan Academy [[↗](https://www.khanacademy.org/math)]

This is the go-to place if there's a particular concept you want to practice. Khan Academy provides explanations of concepts in this course, and provides practice questions, with answer checking. I particularly used this site to get to grips with matrix operations!

## Personal Tips

Like with CS130, do your best to engage with the problem sheets, as they're there to help you with your understanding of concepts. I would also highly recommend hand-writing notes for this module, especially if you're not confident with the concepts beforehand. Hand writing does a better job at committing information to memory than typing on a computer, and I can tell you that from my own experience, *and* the advice of a Discrete Mathematics student.

This is a maths module, so practice, practice, practice!

## My Thoughts

This module is taught quite well. There are plenty of resources to help your understand, and the lectures are paced well enough to where you can ask questions comfortably, and so that they are engaging. Seminar content is also useful, especially sessions that discuss the coursework.

I do not have any comments for the coursework, as it was neither hugely difficult, nor surprisingly easy. They do, however, make good sources of revision.

The exam was easier compared to previous years, and I had few issues with it.