+++
title = "CS130 - Mathematics for Computer Scientists I"
+++

Let this be your fair warning: the mathematics presented in this module will be nothing like what which you learned at A-Level. Nearly everyone I've spoken to got surprised by this module.

## Useful Links

#### Yijun Hu's Notes [[↗](https://yijun.hu/blog-cs/cs130/index.html)]

If you need some comprehensive and easy to read notes, this is *the* perfect resource. I used this this page to revise my knowledge of graphs and cardinality, but this covers everything you need to know. Don't use this site as an alternative to lectures though!

## Personal Tips

Out of all of the core Computer Science modules, lecture attendance is most important for this one, since there are no slides or official notes. Of course, being in the lectures also allows you to ask questions if there's something you don't understand (trust me, that will happen).

Do your best to engage with the first few problem sheets, as they provide great exercises to test your understanding and application of concepts, plus you will not be assessed on correctness for these.

Above all, practice is everything!

## My Thoughts

The lectures were rather enjoyable, despite the difficulty I had with the content. This was definitely one of the more well-taught modules for my year. Seminars were fine as well.

The problem sheets start fairly simple and easy, but in my experience, have a steep difficulty curve. This is by no means a criticism, merely my own opinion. The last problem sheet is assessed on various grounds, and covers the majority of the content, making it the toughest. This being said, some of the problems are rather enjoyable, but will require some lateral thinking!

The exam was decent for this year. I mostly did not have issues with it, and where I did, it was simply because there were concepts or proofs I was not confident with. CS130 was my worst module, but this was anticipated given the difficulty of the content. Chances are you will struggle a bit with this module too, but don't lose faith!