+++
title = "CS140 - Computer Security"
+++

This module mostly appealed to me, because of my A-Level project, where I implemented my own encryption, hashing and authentication by hand. If you're interested in any of these topics, you'll find this module to be at least somewhat engaging.

## Useful Links

#### CS140, in 140 Flashcards (Knowt) [[↗](https://knowt.com/flashcards/fff4fc73-15d9-4a26-80fe-8fe64c824c49)]

These flashcards cover all of the content of the course, and were written by me. These should provide a good recap for the exam. The more complex concepts also include explanations, which should help your understanding (Although you can always use Knowt's AI features).

## Personal Tips

The second half of the coursework will require you to have some knowledge of Linux, which should be covered by [CS133](/resources/cs133#personal-tips). If you don't do this module, take some time to get to know the basic commands, such as `ls`, `cat`, `nano` (or `vim` if you feel so inclined), etc., as well as the directory structure of Linux in general. Make sure to apply all of the knowledge you've acquired in this module into doing the coursework, as this will give you ideas on what to check for, but also feel free to have a look at anything and everything for stuff that could be misconfigured or problematic!

## My Thoughts

I never really gave much thought to this module, not because I wasn't interested in the content, but because it was overall, just okay. The teaching is a bit inconsistent with pacing, as it was common for lectures to run over schedule, and for the lecturer to rush through the remaining content in the next.

The first half of the coursework has a lot of hand-holding, and so is not particularly difficult (To avoid speedrunning, make sure you remember any passwords you set! **Don't ask how I know this!!**). The second half requires more analysis and knowledge of Linux, and felt like doing an easter egg hunt while blindfolded. Fun, but frustrating at times.

The exam was unremarkable, being of difficulty in line with past exams.